The President:
Hi, everybody.
For the first time
in more than 6 years,
the unemployment
rate is below 6%.
Over the past four
and a half years,
our businesses have created
more than 10 million new jobs.
That's the longest
uninterrupted stretch
of private sector job
creation in our history.
But while our businesses are
creating jobs at the fastest
pace since the '90s,
the typical family
hasn't seen a raise
since the '90s also.
Folks are feeling
as squeezed as ever.
That's why I'm going to keep
pushing policies that will
create more jobs faster
and raise wages faster -
policies like rebuilding
our infrastructure,
making sure women
are paid fairly,
and making it easier for
young people to pay off
their student loans.
But one of the simplest and
fastest ways to start helping
folks get ahead is by
raising the minimum wage.
Ask yourself: could you
live on $14,500 a year?
That's what someone
working full-time
on the minimum wage makes.
If they're raising kids,
that's below the poverty line.
And that's not right.
A hard day's work
deserves a fair day's pay.
Right now, a worker on the
federal minimum wage earns
$7.25 an hour.
It's time to raise
that to $10.10 an hour.
Raising the federal minimum
wage to ten dollars
and ten cents an hour, or
ten-ten, would benefit
28 million
American workers.
28 million.
And these aren't just high
schoolers on their first job.
The average worker who would
benefit is 35 years old.
Most low-wage
workers are women.
And that extra money would
help them pay the bills
and provide for
their families.
It also means they'll have
more money to spend at local
businesses - which grows
the economy for everyone.
But Congress hasn't voted
to raise the minimum wage
in seven years.
Seven years.
And when it got a vote
earlier this year,
Republicans flat-out voted "no."
That's why, since the first time
I asked Congress to give
America a raise, 13
states, 21 cities
and the District of
Columbia have gone around
Congress to raise
their workers' wages.
Five more states have
minimum wage initiatives
on the ballot next month.
More companies are choosing to
raise their workers' wages.
A recent survey shows that a
majority of small business
owners support a gradual
increase to ten-ten
an hour, too.
And I've done what I can on
my own by requiring
federal contractors to pay
their workers at least
ten-ten an hour.
On Friday, a coalition
of citizens - including
business leaders, working
moms, labor unions,
and more than 65 mayors - told
Republicans in Congress to stop
blocking a raise for millions
of hard-working Americans.
Because we believe
that in America,
nobody who works full-time
should ever have to raise
a family in poverty.
And I'm going to keep up
this fight until we win.
Because America deserves
a raise right now.
And America should forever
be a place where your
hard work is rewarded.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.